The Joe Rogan experience.
You and I would have met eight years ago just about to the date in a few months,
because it will be the eight year anniversary of my being sued by Marine,
Lana, Canada, for plotting to steal a walrus, uh,
which would have been in February of 2013.
It's been so long. I hardly remember how we.
We're introduced. I can tell you the story. Please do.
When I was sued by Marine land, the headlines, uh,
international were quite absurd. One of which in the, uh,
said the Kanye west of animal training gets sued for 1.5.
And I tweeted to you saying, dude,
they're calling me the Kanye west of animal training. He's like,
they're calling you the what? And then you went straight to my DM and he said,
dude, you got to come to LA. And we got to talk about this. I'm like, dude,
I'm on the next flight. Let's do it.
I've always had a soft spot in my heart for dolphins and orcas. And,
and I just, I think we're going to look at it.
I've said this before on the podcast with you,
but I think we're going to look at it in the future the same way we look at
slavery. I think there, it makes me sad just talking about it.
I think I think there is intelligent as we are.
I think they're just different and because we don't understand their language,
we, uh, we think it's okay. And I think it's,
it's beyond up watching your documentary made me cry.
Man made me really cry when I was watching that dolphin get forced fed.
That's hard when they're holding his mouth open and shoving fish in his throat,
I'm like Christ. What, what is that? Imagine a person. Imagine a person.
I mean, you're dealing with an animal that is a cerebral cortex.
It's 40% larger than a person's.
Can I tell you the story of that animal? His name was Sam.
He came in an old male dolphin, wild caught, uh, from Russia. And, uh,
when we received him, you only had to take one,
look and realize this animal is going to reject captivity. He's a warrior.
He's got scars up and down. This is not an animal. That's going to accept.
Being told what to do by idiots like me. And you just saw,
he rejected captivity. We did everything we could to keep him alive.
And you know, if you notice in the documentary,
I was told to turn the camera off. And I said, no, no, this is important.
I knew then that a lot of the documentation of the things that I was taking
could prove useful in the future. I didn't have a agenda when I was there.
Remember I was a company guy. I.
Well, you were a kid and I was a kid. That's,
what's crazy about your documentary, the Woolworths and the whistleblower,
emotional.
Alrighty. I know I came to the right place, Joe.
You've always been the biggest support and the fact that you answer all my
calls, you're one of the last and uh, I just know I'm in the right place.
This is my safe place. And uh, thank you for that. My friend.
I'm invested. I'm invested in you and you thing. And this, this,
this project,
and the fact that Canada stepped up and made all Orca and
dolphin captivity elite.
And that doesn't exist without you and I having had done this. It, it, the,
the backstory to that is it was an interview with you and I,
where the senator's son approached the center and said,
is there any way we can help this guy?
And then suddenly private members bills was introduced. You know,
I got a call saying, Hey, we're looking to work on something here.
And I was like, absolutely. And that's how the bill got drafted.
It doesn't exist without you and I haven't spoken.
So in every which way I have you to thank and the world over has you to thank
because the influence that you have had on the passing of this law,
and now it's progressing to other countries.
Other countries are consulting with I'm actually, uh,
being witnessed in Australia, submitted some, uh, uh, witness testimony,
whatnot to, to, to support the, a similar ban.
And also I'd like to take the opportunity to take this time to say that there's
more laws coming in Canada.
The next law that's been introduced by the same Senator, uh, uh,
uh, Senator Murray Sinclair. Who's, who's actually retiring,
but he now has introduced, what's called the Jane Goodall act,
which is now gonna extend animal protections and ban the cafeteria. Great apes,
big cats, because there's, you know,
there's some places in Ontario in Canada that are awful,
that they just breed these cats rapidly. It's just,
it's just not the place to have them.
They're riding elephants at a place called, uh, African lion safari.
You're next, anyways, laws are coming. So Joe,
in every which way that I get attributed with
having done all this stuff, I attributed it right back to you.
That's the influence of this show.
I knew something eight years ago when I was desperate and looking for a place
to, to, to where I can speak unimpeded.
The media doesn't allow me that with the lawsuits and everything on me,
a lot of places won't talk to me because they get threatened to be sued.
You kept talking to me.
And so we're here today in celebration of every which way that you have
influenced both my life and the way that we can continue to influence, uh,
uh, the state of the planet for these majestic animals. I mean, really,
it doesn't take a lot of thinking to realize that dolphins,
porpoises and whales have, like you say, a higher intelligence,
I'll even challenge to suggest that they may be even more emotionally
intelligent than we could ever appreciate. I mean,
there's a chance that they're more intelligent than us. So, you know,
when you say that, what watching that dolphin get force fed.
I have 12 years of that to process and to discuss and to talk.
And it's invaluable that my experience that I have these open channels to speak
and I have them because of you. So.
Thank you, Joe. I'm honored and I'm happy. And you you've been here. I mean,
if we're going back eight years, this is literally the beginning of the podcast.
When it was just, you were one of the, like the first groups of interviews,
because I was just kind of talking with my friends.
Most of the time back then episode 4, 25.
It didn't.
Have, um, I mean, it wasn't, it didn't have an impact on culture.
It was just a silly thing that we were doing.
And so to talk to you about something that meant something to me and
for to see that you've been just swinging,
duking it out all these years know when you watch the documentary,
you get a real sense of how long this has been a part of your life.
It's crazy goosebumps.
You've even got your even rocking the glasses old man style.
Now I bought these pink coming on forever, and now you're rocking so gray.
Now you're rocking glasses like this. It's it's really nuts, man. When,
when you look at the overall time spent battling this out,
I can't think of another person that's more on the forefront of a
Marine mammal captivity than you are.
And again, I have to you to thank for all of that.
Um, so now I have you to thank, I wouldn't have,
I would just been just talking about it. I would, uh, I mean,
I never thought that it would have an impact. I didn't, you know, it was,
it wasn't a plan, right?
And he was a second UDM to me. I thought, this is it. This is my chance.
And then years went by and it occurred to me. I'm going to have to go again.
It doesn't end. And I came back and then the bills start piling up again.
And then I got to come back. This is now the fifth time I've been here, Joe.
I will say that it's crazy. I will say this.
You have the most influential podcast in the world.
The fact that I've had to come here five times will tell you just how much abuse
that it is that I've endured systematic abuse through both the courts. You know,
Marine lands, lawyer,
Andrew Burns is really good at doing what he does,
which is abuse the system. And, you know,
by virtue of I'm still here accruing inordinate amounts of,
of debt for a lawsuit that can easily be beat, uh,
resolved. It's a trespassing wall, a lawsuit. I never,
I never stepped foot on the property.
There isn't an iota of evidence that I've been presented in a multi-million
dollar lawsuit against me that I'm able to defend against. There's nothing,
it's all fiction.
They're literally created a story about me and are using the courts to in every
which way. Silence me.
And what's crazy is during this time the owners died from the time you came in
the podcast, way back eight years ago, till now the owners now dead,
the guy that you were calling out on the podcast back then,
and the guy who's in the documentary, you see him and you,
you see as just his demeanor and his attitude and everything about it.
It's just, and now the fact that he's gone, but yet the lawsuit rages on,
and that's.
What screams that this is now personal lawyers. Uh,
the reputation is everything.
Greenland's lawyer thought this would go away a long time ago because it's not.
And because I've taken a lot of options away from him as I continue down this
very long process, uh, I think he's getting nervous a little bit.
This has become a hallmark lawsuit in Canada. A lot of eyes are on, on,
on what he's doing and there's going to be a lot more after this.
And in a lot of ways, he's making himself famous for all the wrong reasons,
but I'm happy to be on the show to help make that happen.
Well, it's,
there's no good side to keeping those animals in
captivity is no good side to be running a place like Marine land. There's no,
there's no upside it's. I mean, the video alone, if you watch the documentary,
the video alone of the, the damage, their skin,
when they're using chlorine and seeing those animals bleeding and seeing those
animals getting forced fed there's no defending it. You can't defend that.
It's not.
And we have this concept of intelligence based on our own ability to manipulate
the environment around us.
Our concept of intelligence is based on their ability to build things and drive
a car and fly a plane. And that's how we, we,
we need to see manipulation in order to, to do,
to believe that it's intelligent life,
but these animals speak in a way that they've been mean.
Lily was trying to decipher dolphin intelligence in the 1960s.
They still don't know what the they're saying.
They've determined that there's some sort of,
they have dialects and they have the different accents for different
regions, but they don't know what they're saying. They still don't.
These are insanely intelligent animals.
I don't want to say, give up on the idea of interpreting language necessarily,
but the idea that we can attribute words to their sounds is just not,
it's not the thing to do. And again,
I'm not gonna take anything away from scientists are doing this, of course,
but I can, I can attest that in my experience, being there,
the things that I took note of in, in terms of how they communicated it,
I can tell you when a dolphin was sad, angry, excited,
all of these things I can tell you. I mean, I can,
I can attribute what I believe that to have been now in my experience. Yeah.
I would say that that whole.
It's true catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on
Spotify, watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expenses.